April 4th, 2024

8:00 AM
Coffee machine broke again in the staff room. The usual chaos. Miguel, the fifth-year student, asked if I wanted to try his homemade “energy drink.” I should’ve known better. I’ve been jittery since the first sip, and now I’m almost certain my lecture on orbital mechanics included interpretive dance. Nobody said anything, though, which is unsettling. Maybe they think it’s just part of the curriculum now?

11:00 AM
Had another meeting with Virgolino about MKULTRA’s integration into the ISTSat. Virgolino keeps snacking on those sardine crackers and leaving crumbs in the satellite clean room. I’m seriously concerned that we might end up sending an ant colony into space along with the mind-control device. He assured me the ants "won’t affect the signal." It’s hard to know when he’s joking.

3:00 PM
The mayor of Oeiras called. He always calls at the worst possible times, like when I’m just about to escape into a moment of peace between classes. He asked if the device can target individuals specifically. I told him it’s still in the testing phase, but the idea of “influencing local elections” was apparently on his mind. Must be hard, being a politician in Oeiras. I suggested he focus on more local issues like, I don’t know, trash collection. But no, mind control it is.

8:00 PM
Late-night emails. My inbox is 90% requests for lab extensions and 10% conspiracy theories from a guy who insists that the pyramids are alien landing pads. None of the students seem interested in the satellite, which is probably for the best.

Maybe we’re onto something after all.

April 7th, 2024

7:30 AM
Breakfast was interrupted by a message from Virgolino, sent at 4:45 AM, telling me he’d found a “breakthrough” in MKULTRA’s wave dispersion module. That man functions entirely on espresso and dried cod, I swear. I have no idea what the breakthrough is, though, because his message was a voice note and all I could hear was crunching.

10:00 AM
ISTSat is starting to get more attention. During today’s project briefing, some of the engineering students asked if the satellite could help them stream movies more efficiently. I gently reminded them that this is a research satellite and not their personal Wi-Fi booster. However, it did make me wonder—could MKULTRA be used to encourage people to finally finish their research papers on time? Ethical concerns aside, this could solve the biggest problem in academia: procrastination.

1:00 PM
Lunchtime. Ran into the Dean, who asked me how the satellite is progressing. I started explaining our mission goals, but I got nervous halfway through because I wasn’t sure if he knew about MKULTRA. I may have said something about "advanced educational outreach" and "improving civic engagement in Oeiras." He just nodded approvingly and mentioned something about a grant. I hope I didn’t just accidentally promise to mind-control the entire student body.

April 11th, 2024

9:00 AM
I woke up to the sound of my phone ringing. The mayor again. He had an idea to install a backup MKULTRA device at the Oeiras City Hall “just in case.” I told him it’s a satellite project, not a home security system. He wasn’t pleased, but I distracted him by suggesting we name one of the satellite components after him. 

12:00 PM
Virgolino is now claiming that the satellite could "potentially" control the thought patterns of small mammals. I told him that was a hard ethical boundary for me. He just shrugged and said, "Just testing the limits." He then asked me what I thought the mayor of Oeiras would do with an army of telepathically controlled guinea pigs. I didn’t respond.

4:00 PM
Gave a surprise quiz in class today. Nothing serious—just wanted to make sure the students are actually reading the material. I included a bonus question asking them to speculate on the ethical implications of a mind-control satellite in real life. The answers ranged from “This sounds like a terrible Netflix series” to “Can I control my roommate to stop stealing my snacks?” I think I’m losing them.

April 15th, 2024

6:45 AM
The coffee situation at home is critical. Virgolino sent over a prototype espresso machine with AI capabilities he’s been working on as a side project. It broke after three cups and started asking me philosophical questions about the nature of free will. A bit too on-the-nose for a morning coffee machine.

10:30 AM
ISTSat is finally entering the final testing phases. Virgolino insisted we run a simulation using live pigeons. He said pigeons are "the perfect test subjects for mind control." I’m not sure what’s more worrying—the fact that he said this, or that the mayor of Oeiras is now onboard with pigeon experimentation. I’m 90% sure they’ve been texting each other behind my back.

3:00 PM
Lecture on satellite telemetry went smoothly, except for the part where I accidentally opened my MKULTRA development folder instead of the PowerPoint slides. I don’t think anyone noticed, but there was definitely a pause when they saw the file labeled “Top Secret Mind Control Blueprint.” I told them it was just a joke file. They laughed awkwardly. I think I’m safe… for now.

11:00 PM
Virgolino just texted me. He has a new theory: “If we can influence human behavior, could we make people buy more canned sardines?” I responded with “No.” He responded with, “Not yet.”

April 21st, 2024

10:00 AM
Had to explain basic satellite communications to a fifth-year student who thought we were building a giant laser pointer for space. While this is not far from how Virgolino explains things to the mayor, it still hurt my soul a little.

7:00 PM
Dinner at home. My cat stared at me like it knows too much. I wonder if MKULTRA could work on cats. Virgolino says it’s possible. I’m not so sure.
